>> Kyle Simpson: So uppercasing files
is not terribly interesting or useful.
What are some kinds of processing on these
files that we might do that would be more
interesting?
One of the common sorts of
transformations that you may see or
encodings that you may run across on files
is that they've been gzip compressed.
You may wanna unzip them,
process them, and then rezip them.
This happens a lot when you're say
downloading a big file from an FTP site,
processing it, adding some stuff to it,
and then rezipping it and
uploading it to some other HTTP server,
that sort of streaming kind of operation.
So let's pull in some gzipping and
gunzipping.
And luckily, this is, again,
built in for us in Node.
They have a streaming implementation of
the gzip algorithm built into Node and
it's called zlib.
So we're gonna pull in zlib,
>> Kyle Simpson: From Node.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now let's think about
this, let's first talk about compressing
our output, and
then we'll talk about decompressing input.
Let's say that we want to allow
an option for compressing the output.
So we are gonna add a Boolean
flag called compress.
Before I forget, let's go ahead and
update our help.
We can say console.log{"--compress,
we'll gzip the output.
>> Kyle Simpson: So here we are in
our process file, and we need to set
up a streaming gzip
transform stream basically.
So it turns out that's a whole
lot easier than that sentence
sounded like it would be.
We need to figure out where in this
function, do we wanna do the gzipping
of the compression before or
after we've done our transformation?
We wanna do it after, so
we wanna make our capitalization of stuff,
and then we wanna do our gzipping.
So here we're going to
say if (args.compress),
then we need to insert a step
into our stream processing here.
We need to say here,
if , we need to pipe
our outStream into a gzipping stream and
then have it.
So we're gonna say
outStream = outStream.pipe.
And the thing that we wanna pipe
it to is going to be a gzipStream.
So how do we define a gzipStream?
>> Kyle Simpson: It's as
easy as zlib.createGzip.
That makes us a transform stream,
kinda like the one we did manually.
It makes this a transform stream that
already understands the streaming
gzipped protocol.
By the way,
I never knew this about gzip, but
the compression protocol was
literally designed for streaming.
That's why it's so easy for
them to have a streaming gzip
because the actual protocol for
gzipping was designed with this use case
in mind, to be able to do it streaming.
All right, so we are conditionally adding
an additional step of processing which is
that we want to gzip things.
Now if we're going to gzip an output file,
then we might want
to change the file extension
from saying out.txt to having
like .gz extension because that's a pretty
common convention for that file name.
So if we are doing a right stream here,
let's go ahead and
say output stream, if we are compressing.
Let's go ahead and say that output
stream is equal to whatever output
stream already is, but then let's
just appended a .gz on the end of it.
I'm sorry, not out stream, it's out file.
>> Kyle Simpson: Let's test this out.
We're gonna pull up our ex2.js.
And here I'm gonna switch back, just for
the time being, I'm gonna switch back to
the hello.txt, and
I'm gonna use standard out to see things.
And then let's go ahead and
add the compress, so
we should see all the gzipping
junk show up in our shell.
And sure enough we see that, okay.
But if I were to take off the out and
just do the compression,
now we won't see it but it'll end up
creating a file called out.txt.gz.
And if we look, we now have an out.txt.gz.
And here's something interesting that
I found when I was first teaching
this workshop, because I went to open up
the file and I was expecting to see all
the gzipping junk, and it turns out that
we can see the plain text of the file.
And so I spent a good half a day trying to
figure out why is my ziping not working?
What's happening?
It turns out that them,
automatically if you have a file
extension that says .txt.gz,
it automatically gunzips it for
you when you open it.
So this is them's magic showing
us the contents of the gzip file.
If you wanted to verify that
you could a actual cat of it.
And then you'll see
the junk is in the file.
Okay, so
we're able to compress on the fly.
Let's try it again but
let's try it with Lorem, and
we'll see that it creates
a somewhat bigger file.
But that still is
significantly smaller at 226K,
significantly smaller than the 1
gigabyte that we started with.